it's important that you know how to use
our templates so that you don't lose any
content in the cutting process this
happens to be our poker size playing
card template but all the templates have
the same crop marks on them let's take a
closer look the outermost area is called
the bleed and this is the area that
allows us to have color run all the way
out to the edge of the paper
the next area is the red line and that's
called the trim line this is where we
try to cut the edge off the bleed so
that we have color all the way out to
the edge of the paper
now we try to hit that trim line as
precisely as possible
however the cutting process is not
perfect so you'll definitely lose the
entire bleed area but you may also lose
a little portion of the inner area this
area is called the unsafe zone and it
represents everything between the trim
line and the safe zone this area marked
in yellow you don't want to put any
important content in this area because
it may be cut off along with the trim
line and the bleed the next zone is
inside the dashed blue line this is
called the safe zone anything you put in
here should be safe you won't lose it
during the cutting process no matter
what this is where you want to put your
content so let's take a look at this
process with a real playing card we
start with our template and we add our
graphics we want our content to remain
all inside the safe zone so everything
outside the safe zone would just be
bleed or border area I'll make it
semi-transparent so you can kind of see
the card through to the template here
you can see the dashed line where the
safe zone is and you can see that the
content is well within it let me make it
a little bit more transparent that might
help there now you can definitely see
the dashed line
now if we were to increase the size of
our car just by a small 10% that would
change everything you can see now that
there's clearly some content right at
the top up here that it's outside the
dash line or at least it crosses it now
this content is in danger of being cut
off even though it hasn't hit the trim
line yet it's not to say that it will be
cut off but it's in danger and we don't
want our content to be in danger at the
bottom we have the same problem
Manhattan but if we bring our content
inside we shrink it back down we won't
have this problem there will be no
danger of our any content during the
cutting process so it's best just just
play it safe keep your content inside
the safe zone and everything will be
fine